Today is a beautiful day, because we're
going to bake loads of cookies.
All of these are easy, one -bowl recipes,
and the cookies that result are soft and
chewy, just the way I like them.
As always, you can find the link to the
blog post in the description box below
for the full breakdown of the recipes,
and no more introduction needed.
I'm sure you're ready to dive in, as am
I, so let's get started.
We'll start by making these peanut butter
and chocolate oatmeal cookies, which take
only 15 minutes to make from start to
finish, and use just 7 ingredients with
no added sugar, oil, or flour.
For those who use metric measurements,
like grams and milliliters, please note I
always include this in my blog post, so
check the links in the description box below.
Now, this recipe calls for quick oats,
but if, like me, you only have regular
oats, you can always make your own by
throwing them into a food processor and
blend until coarsely chopped.
Now, you're just going to want to add the
bananas to a large bowl and mash until
you achieve a rather fluid consistency,
then you add the vanilla extract and
peanut butter and mix it all together.
At this point, you can add the
cranberries, roasted coconut flakes,
chocolate, and oats, stirring until it's
all well combined.
The mixture should create about 12
cookies, so you'll first roll it into a
ball and then press it down to create a
cookie shape.
Place it on a cookie tray lined with
baking paper, and you don't need to leave
so much room between the cookies because
they won't spread.
Bake it in the oven at 350 Fahrenheit or
180 Celsius for about 10 -12 minutes, or
until the tops turn golden.
Remove it from the oven and allow it to
cool for a couple of minutes before you
transfer it to a cooling rack to cool completely.
In my opinion, these cookies can hardly
be called dessert in the conventional
sense, in that they're just too wholesome
and make for a wonderful snack that
anyone will enjoy, kids or adults alike.
This is just to show you how soft and
chewy the cookies are, and they taste so
good, you won't even believe that they're
so healthy too.
Alright, moving on to cookie recipe
number two, blueberry almond breakfast cookies.
As the recipe name suggests, these
cookies can make for a quick grab -and
-go breakfast if you really can't find a
time for a sit -down meal, but I
personally use it more as a snack or dessert.
Like the previous recipe, these cookies
are made with no added sugar, oil, or
flour, and feature some super wholesome
ingredients, including antioxidant -rich
blueberries, fiber, and omega -3
powerhouses like flax and chia seeds, as
well as applesauce and a banana, which
not only add natural sweetness, but also
function similarly to oil in baked
treats, but of course, these fruits are
much more nutritious than oil.
Now we're going to create our own almond
meal by grinding up the almonds in a food
processor until it makes a coarse flour.
Then we're going to chop some dairy -free
dark chocolate, and if you're not a fan
of chocolate, you can always substitute
it out in any of these recipes for nuts,
seeds, or dried fruits of your choosing.
We'll start again with the banana,
mashing it completely before we add the
applesauce, almond butter, and vanilla
extract, then stir to combine.
Then you can add the almond meal, ground
flax seeds, and chia seeds, stirring
before you then add the baking soda,
cinnamon, and salt.
Then you'll add the oats and pumpkin
seeds, stirring once again before you add
the chocolate and blueberries at the very end.
You're going to want to fold these in
gently so that the blueberries don't
bleed so much into the dough.
Much like before, we're going to roll
this dough into a ball and then press it
into a cookie shape.
This should make about 10 cookies in total.
Always reserve a few chunks of chocolate
to place on top as well for presentation
before you bake it in the oven at 350
Fahrenheit or 180 Celsius for about 15
minutes or until it's lightly golden.
Then allow it to cool for a couple
minutes before you again transfer it to a
cooling rack.
These cookies are so delicious, it's
really just a bonus that they're loaded
with grains, seeds, nuts, and fruit.
I especially like to enjoy it with some
homemade chai tea and fresh fruit when my
sweet tooth strikes.
And I can say with all honesty, I now
prefer these to the super sweet
conventional store -bought cookies I used
to eat before.
I used to eat them because they were
convenient, but these cookies can be too.
I mean, I usually make a big batch and
then individually wrap them and freeze
them to enjoy as on -demand desserts or
grab -and -go snacks.
We're going to move on to our final
recipe now, classic chocolate chip cookies.
Now, the previous two recipes were super wholesome,
but
I'm not averse to having some more
indulgent treats sometimes too.
And this recipe makes for a wonderful
housewarming or potluck contribution if
you choose.
I once took it to Robin's family
gathering and no one noticed they were vegan.
No hidden or strange ingredients in this
recipe, and here's a little tip.
You'll want to use refined coconut oil
instead of unrefined oil to avoid any
pronounced coconut flavor in the cookies.
The coconut oil really just functions
similarly to butter in normal cookie recipes.
Another tip is to reserve some of the
chocolate bits for presentation on top of
the cookies at the end.
You'll notice I did this with every
recipe in this video.
Now, to a large bowl, you'll want to
cream together some solid coconut oil and
brown sugar.
If the coconut oil is liquid, just place
it in the fridge for a bit to harden first.
Once creamed, add the maple syrup, plant
milk, vanilla extract, baking soda, salt,
and baking powder, and mix it again until
well combined.
The mixture is going to look clumpy and
that's okay.